Getting started with Sinatra
============================

Writing a small Heroku-targeted app for accepting picture submissions

Technologies to be used
-----------------------

 * Ruby
 * Sinatra
 * MongoDB
 * Amazon S3
 * Sendgrid
 * Git 

 * Notable gems:
   * bundler
   * mongoid
   * heroku
   * datamapper
   * haml
   * thin

Assumptions
-----------

### You have Ruby installed and you have a Heroku account.

Wrong? Get [RVM](rvm.beginrescueend.com) and install Ruby 1.9.3. 

### You understand Git.

Wrong? Go learn the basics. It will change your life.

### You have accounts with Heroku and Amazon Web Services.

* [Heroku](http://heroku.com)
* [Amazon Web Services](http://aws.amazon.com)

First things first
------------------
Step with me!

```
mkdir picture-contest
git init .
echo "rvm use --create 1.9.3@picture-contest" > .rvmrc
cd .. && cd -
```

Accept the RVM warning.

```
gem install bundler
bundle init
```

Edit the Gemfile, where Bundler's configuration is kept, to your liking. For
now, just add Sinatra, Haml, and Thin.

```
source "https://rubygems.org"
gem "sinatra" # site engine
gem "haml" # template engine
gem "thin" # web server
gem "heroku" #hosting service
```

Run `bundle install` to install the gems listed in your Gemfile. Several 
additional gems will be installed. These are *dependencies* of the gems we want.

We will add more gems to the Gemfile as we come across them.

Let's make our initial commit here with 

```
git add . 
git commit -m "Initial commit"
```

Sing away
---------

Create picture_contest.rb and stub out the first parts of what it is we want to
do

```
#!/usr/bin/env ruby
require 'rubygems'
require 'bundler/setup'
Bundler.require

get '/' do
  'Picture contest!'
end
```

Save it and execute `bundle exec ruby picture_contest.rb`.

[Open it in your browser](http://localhost:4567) as directed and you should 
see "Picture contest!" in the browser window! If you do, you've just written
your first little Sinatra app!

Now's a great time to commit your work. Commit early, commit often.

```
git add picture_contest.rb
git commit
```

